This project was for restraint model training. A reproducible manuscript of model validation (XX) was written in this project, and the snapshot of files used in the manuscript was uploaded to an OSF repository (XX). 

After the manuscript, I still carried on the project and did some exploratory modeling.

--------Pipeline--------
Part 1: Model training and validation using Leave-one-out cross-validation 

  Input data: compiled data from the "data_compiled" folder. It contains windowed sensors' motion features and windowed human codes. Note, only the windows with a single code for >90% of the time was kept.
  
    Window lengths vary from 4s, 16s, to 30s.
    
    The original compiled files are "compiled_data_restrained_4s.RData","compiled_data_restrained_16s.RData","compiled_data_restrained_30s.RData". They were generated by R scripts (e.g., "compile_data_restrained.R", from the server)
    
    "_keepall" files are the ones with all windows, regardless of the proportion of time a certain code takes up. They were generated by R scripts (e.g., "compile_data_restrained.R", from the server)
    
    "_withtime" files are the ones with start time stamp for each window, for bout-level validation. They were generated by R scripts (e.g., "compile_data_restrained.R", from the server)
    
  LOOCV was conducted in Julia using the file "train_group_loocv_restrained.jl"
  
  Output data: Each study session has two output files: "id_session_actual" (for logging human annotation) and "id_session_predict" (for model prediction). Each model has its own folder. For example, "predict_4_no_pos". The folders were also uploaded to server, in "study_imu_long"--> "restraint"--> "1 validation" --> "model prediction_loocv"
  

Part 2: Calculate model performance

  Input data: Individual files of predictions and codes for each session from the last step.
  
  The model performance was calculated on the server. We used the "check_predictions_restraint_loocv.R" script to calculate performance metrics for a single session and used "check_predictions_restraint_bulk_loocv.R" to aggregate across sessions. Open the "bulk" one directly and it will call the function
  
  Output data: "matrices.RData" for 4s, 16s, 30s, >90% windows. There are also other matrix. For example, "matrix_4_20feature.RData" is for the 4s, 20feature model. I didn't store the matrices on the server, but here in this directory.


Part 3: Feature importance analysis

  We were curious to see if using a subset of the features would still provide a good model.
  
  We used "feature_importance.jl" script, which is basically the same as loocv script but has extra lines to keep the feature importance and save the data.

  Input data: compiled data
  
  Output data: feature importance lists for each loocv iteration. csv files are saved in folders like "feature_importance_4s".
  
  Analysis: We used "feature_importance_analysis.qmd" to aggregate and visualize the csv files. We also got a subset of features using the same script. The subset of features were saved as a compiled data too.
  
    "_20feature" files are the ones with the top 20 important features. They were picked out by an R script ("feature_importance_analysis.qmd", in this project) based on the original compiled data (e.g., "compiled_data_restrained_4s.RData")
    
    "_ankonly" files are the ones with only ankle sensors' features. They were picked out by an R script ("feature_importance_analysis.qmd", in this project)) based on the original compiled data (e.g., "compiled_data_restrained_4s.RData")
    
    "_leftonly" files are the ones with only left sensors' features. They were picked out by an R script ("feature_importance_analysis.qmd", in this project)) based on the original compiled data (e.g., "compiled_data_restrained_4s.RData")

  Then, the compiled data were used to run loocv in Julia again using "train_group_loocv_restrained.jl", and the model performance was evaluated in "feature_importance_analysis.qmd"


Part 4: Final model predictions

  After validating the modeling process, we used all 1.5-hour human codes as ground truth labels to predict infant restraint for all the sensor data we collected (John did this part).
  
  The windowed human codes and final model predictions (30s and 4s) for each session is saved on the server in each individual session's folder.
  
  I combined the model predictions for all sessions using "load_whole_model_predictions.R". The output is saved in local as "whole-model-prediction.RData", or "whole-model-4s-prediction.RData", depending on the window length used.
  
  The whole-model-prediction is then loaded for empirical analyses, instead of reading them from the server again.
  

Part 5: Bout-level performance evaluation

  We want to see if the model performs well in the bout level (windowed). The script is on the server, "code"-->"project_status"-->"check_bout_reliability_restraint.R", because we need to read codes and predictions from session folders.
  
  It calls for the windowed human codes and final model predictions (30s or 4s) for each session.
  
  The synced codes and predictions (an intermediate product) are saved in local as "combined_codes_predictions.Rdata".
  
  The script also analyzes bout-level correlation.
  
  
Other

 "manuscript_restrained_classification validation.qmd" is the submitted manuscript. It does not contain feature importance analysis or bout-level evaluation
  
